BEIJING — One Friday more than two years ago, an air-quality monitoring device atop the United States Embassy in Beijing recorded data so horrifying that someone in the embassy called the level of pollution "Crazy Bad" in an infamous Twitter post. That day the Air Quality Index, which uses standards set by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, had crept above 500, which was supposed to be the top of the scale.So what phrase is appropriate to describe Saturday's jaw-dropping reading of 755 at 8 p.m., when all of Beijing looked like an airport smokers' lounge? Though an embassy spokesman said he did not immediately have comparative data, Beijing residents who follow the Twitter feed said the Saturday numbers appeared to be the highest recorded since the embassy began its monitoring system in 2008.The embassy's @BeijingAir Twitter feed said the level of toxicity in the air was "Beyond Index," the terminology for levels above 500; the "Crazy Bad" label was used just once, in November 2010, before it was quickly deleted by the embassy from the Twitter feed. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, levels between 301 and 500 are "Hazardous," meaning people should avoid all outdoor activity. The World Health Organization has standards that judge a score above 500 to be more than 20 times the level of particulate matter in the air deemed safe.In online conversations, Beijing residents tried to make sense of the latest readings."This is a historic record for Beijing," Zhao Jing, a prominent Internet commentator who uses the pen name Michael Anti, wrote on Twitter. "I've closed the doors and windows; the air purifiers are all running automatically at full power."Other Beijing residents online described the air as "postapocalyptic," "terrifying" and "beyond belief."The municipal government reported levels as high as 500 on Saturday evening from some monitoring stations. The Chinese system does not report numbers beyond 500. Nevertheless, readings in central Beijing throughout the day were at the extreme end of what is considered hazardous according to the United States Environmental Protection Agency standards. (By comparison, the air quality index in New York City, using the same standard, was 19 at 6 a.m. on Saturday.)Pollution levels in Beijing had been creeping up for days, and readings were regularly surging above 300 by midweek. The interior of the gleaming Terminal 3 of the Beijing Capital International Airport was filled with a thick haze on Thursday. The next day, people working in office towers in downtown Beijing found it impossible to make out skyscrapers just a few blocks away. Some city residents scoured stores in search of masks and air filters.Still, there was little warning that the United States Embassy reading would jump above 700 on Saturday. Some people speculated that the monitoring system, which measures fine particles called PM 2.5 because they are 2.5 microns in diameter or smaller, might have malfunctioned once it got beyond 500.But Nolan Barkhouse, an embassy spokesman, said the monitor was operating correctly.It was unclear exactly what was responsible for the rise in levels of particulate matter, beyond the factors that regularly sully the air here. Factories operating in neighboring Hebei Province ring this city of more than 20 million. The number of cars on Beijing's streets has been multiplying at an astounding rate. And Beijing sits on a plain flanked by hills and escarpments that can trap pollution on days with little wind. Meanwhile, one person hiking at the Great Wall in the hills at Mutianyu, north of Beijing, took photographs of crisp blue skies there.Xinhua, the state news agency, reported on Dec. 31 that Beijing's air quality had improved for 14 years straight, and the level of major pollutants had decreased. A municipal government spokesman told Xinhua that the annual average concentration of PM 10, or particles 10 microns in diameter or smaller, had dropped by 4 percent in 2012, compared with one year earlier.Chinese officials prefer to publicly release air pollution measurements that give only levels of PM 10, although foreign health and environmental experts say PM 2.5 can be deadlier and more important to track.There has been a growing outcry among Chinese for municipal governments to release fuller air quality data, in part because of the United States Embassy Twitter feed. As a result, Beijing began announcing PM 2.5 numbers last January. Major Chinese cities have had the equipment to track those levels, but had refused for a long time to release the data.The existence of the embassy's machine and the @BeijingAir Twitter feed have been a diplomatic sore point for Chinese officials. In July 2009, a Chinese Foreign Ministry official, Wang Shu'ai, told American diplomats to halt the Twitter feed, saying that the data "is not only confusing but also insulting," according to a State Department cable obtained by WikiLeaks. Mr. Wang said the embassy's data could lead to "social consequences."
HONG KONG — Delegates at a major international meeting on wildlife trade voted on Monday to add several shark species to a list of plants and animals whose international trade is regulated. The vote was welcomed by conservationists, though it is still subject to final approval by the conference later this week.The decisions on the five shark species — the oceanic whitetip, the porbeagle and three types of hammerhead sharks — were high on the agenda of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, or Cites, in Bangkok this month. Scientists and conservationists have been saying for years that shark populations around the world have come under severe pressure from overfishing, largely because of soaring demand in China and several other Asian nations.Soup made from shark fins is highly prized in Chinese culture. The dried fins sell for more than $50 a pound.There are more than 300 known species of sharks in all, including the five designated for protection on Monday. Sharks are particularly vulnerable to overfishing because they grow slowly, mature late and produce few young."It's a bittersweet day for sharks," said Glenn Sant, the marine program leader with Traffic, an organization that monitors the trade in endangered wildlife, in a statement. "While their adoption on Cites is warmly welcomed, it's a sad indictment that their populations have fallen to such a low level that such measures have become a necessity."The list of regulated species could still change before the plenary session of the Cites meeting this week, when it is due for a final approval vote. "Between now and plenary," said Ali Hood of the Shark Trust, a conservation and advocacy group, "we will be urging governments to remain vigilant and ensure final adoption of these vital international trade controls."
HONG KONG — A major international meeting on wildlife trade ended on Thursday with final decisions to extend protections for dozens of animal and plant species — including five types of sharks — that have come under severe pressure from soaring demand and overfishing.Conservationists welcomed the decisions by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, or Cites, to regulate trade in the threatened species, including for the first time trade in mantas and five shark species: the oceanic whitetip, the porbeagle and three types of hammerhead sharks. Shark populations have fallen sharply in recent years as demand for their fins, predominantly from China, has risen.The group reached a preliminary agreement on Monday to add those species to the protected list, but there was concern that it might be overturned at the conference's final plenary session. South American and West African countries rallied to block efforts by Japan to reopen the debate; Japan, like China, has long opposed restrictions on fishing."Today was the most significant day for the ocean in the 40-year history of Cites," said Susan Lieberman, the deputy director of international policy at the Pew Charitable Trusts, in a statement. "This victory indicates that the global community will collaborate to address the plight" of threatened ocean species, she added.Even so, conservationists warned that the decisions to protect the sharks and mantas and similar actions to regulate trade in various turtles and in ebony and rosewood, did not necessarily herald a broad or lasting shift toward more effective wildlife protection."We've certainly had some important approvals," said Colman O'Criodain of the World Wildlife Fund International, speaking by phone from Bangkok, where the conference took place. He noted that national governments and nongovernmental organizations had formed broad-based coalitions to push through decisions, a new phenomenon at Cites meetings, which take place about every three years.Previous Cites meetings had "a mixed record of successes and failures," Mr. O'Criodain said, so it was yet to be seen whether the latest measures would be effective. Ultimately, that depends on whether national governments put them into effect, since Cites has no enforcement mechanism of its own. For example, Thailand permits trade in ivory from domestic elephants, a policy that is exploited by smugglers to launder ivory from African elephants.
As unlikely as this may sound, we have lucked out in recent years when it comes to global warming .The rise in the surface temperature of earth has been markedly slower over the last 15 years than in the 20 years before that. And that lull in warming has occurred even as greenhouse gases have accumulated in the atmosphere at a record pace.The slowdown is a bit of a mystery to climate scientists. True, the basic theory that predicts a warming of the planet in response to human emissions does not suggest that warming should be smooth and continuous. To the contrary, in a climate system still dominated by natural variability, there is every reason to think the warming will proceed in fits and starts.But given how much is riding on the scientific forecast, the practitioners of climate science would like to understand exactly what is going on. They admit that they do not, even though some potential mechanisms of the slowdown have been suggested. The situation highlights important gaps in our knowledge of the climate system, some of which cannot be closed until we get better measurements from high in space and from deep in the ocean.As you might imagine, those dismissive of climate-change concerns have made much of this warming plateau. They typically argue that "global warming stopped 15 years ago" or some similar statement, and then assert that this disproves the whole notion that greenhouse gases are causing warming.Rarely do they mention that most of the warmest years in the historical record have occurred recently. Moreover, their claim depends on careful selection of the starting and ending points. The starting point is almost always 1998, a particularly warm year because of a strong El Niño weather pattern.Somebody who wanted to sell you gold coins as an investment could make the same kind of argument about the futility of putting your retirement funds into the stock market. If he picked the start date and the end date carefully enough, the gold salesman could make it look like the stock market did not go up for a decade or longer.But that does not really tell you what your retirement money is going to do in the market over 30 or 40 years. It does not even tell you how you would have done over the cherry-picked decade, which would have depended on exactly when you got in and out of the market.Scientists and statisticians reject this sort of selective use of numbers, and when they calculate the long-term temperature trends for the earth, they conclude that it continues to warm through time. Despite the recent lull, it is an open question whether the pace of that warming has undergone any lasting shift.What to make of it all?We certainly cannot conclude, as some people want to, that carbon dioxide is not actually a greenhouse gas. More than a century of research thoroughly disproves that claim.In fact, scientists can calculate how much extra heat should be accumulating from the human-caused increases in greenhouse gases, and the energies involved are staggering. By a conservative estimate, current concentrations are trapping an extra amount of energy equivalent to 400,000 Hiroshima bombs exploding across the face of the earth every day.So the real question is where all that heat is going, if not to warm the surface. And a prime suspect is the deep ocean. Our measurements there are not good enough to confirm it absolutely, but a growing body of research suggests this may be an important part of the answer.Exactly why the ocean would have started to draw down extra heat in recent years is a mystery, and one we badly need to understand. But the main ideas have to do with possible shifts in winds and currents that are causing surface heat to be pulled down faster than before.The deep-ocean theory is one of a half-dozen explanations that have been proffered for the warming plateau. Perhaps the answer will turn out to be some mix of all of them. And in any event, computer forecasts of climate change suggest that pauses in warming lasting a couple of decades should not surprise us.Now, here is a crucial piece of background: It turns out we had an earlier plateau in global warming, from roughly the 1950s to the 1970s, and scientists do not fully understand that one either. A lot of evidence suggests that sunlight-blocking pollution from dirty factories may have played a role, as did natural variability in ocean circulation. The pollution was ultimately reduced by stronger clean-air laws in the West.Today, factory pollution from China and other developing countries could be playing a similar role in blocking some sunlight. We will not know for sure until we send up satellites that can make better measurements of particles in the air.What happened when the mid-20th-century lull came to an end? You guessed it: an extremely rapid warming of the planet.So, if past is prologue, this current plateau will end at some point, too, and a new era of rapid global warming will begin. That will put extra energy and moisture into the atmosphere that can fuel weather extremes, like heat waves and torrential rains.We might one day find ourselves looking back on the crazy weather of the 2010s with a deep yearning for those halcyon days.
