WASHINGTON — When Secretary of State John Kerry was scrambling last week to prevent the leader of the Syrian opposition from boycotting a meeting with him in Rome — a snub that could have spoiled his maiden voyage as the nation's chief diplomat — he leaned on an old Senate colleague to help him out: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.After Mr. Kerry extracted an agreement from the Syrian opposition leader, Moaz al-Khatib, to show up, Mr. Biden sealed the deal with a follow-up call. The vice president, who had met Mr. Khatib at a security conference in Munich, praised him for his courage, told him how important the meeting was and promised to stay in touch, according to the White House.It was a classic example of how Mr. Biden has used personal relationships to amass influence in the Obama administration — a talent that current and former officials predicted would allow him to further expand his influence on foreign policy during President Obama's second term.Mr. Biden will shift to another part of the Middle East on Monday, when he will set the stage for Mr. Obama's first presidential trip to Israel later this month, in a speech to the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, an influential pro-Israel lobbying group.When Mr. Biden last spoke to the group in 2009, he warned them "you're not going to like this," before laying out Mr. Obama's demand, largely rebuffed, that Israel stop building Jewish settlements in the West Bank. This time, officials said, he will be more conciliatory, presaging a less confrontational approach during the president's visit."Biden has great credibility with the pro-Israel community," said Israel's ambassador to the United States, Michael B. Oren. "He has always been able to speak candidly and openly with us, all the while making it clear that he stands foursquare with the president."Mr. Biden, officials said, used his ties on Capitol Hill to champion another unpopular cause: Chuck Hagel, also an old Senate friend. With Mr. Hagel under attack over his positions on Iran and remarks he made about Israel, officials said Mr. Biden worked the phones to reassure skeptical senators and help eke out his confirmation as defense secretary.Just as important to Mr. Biden's rise is his role in policy debates. With the exception of the raid on Osama bin Laden, which Mr. Biden famously advised delaying, there are few big policy deliberations in which he has not lined up with Mr. Obama. On issues like Afghanistan or Syria, his cautious instincts have prevailed over those advocating a more aggressive course.In addition to pushing for a faster timetable for withdrawing troops from Afghanistan, he was also among those who opposed supplying weapons to the rebels in Syria — a proposal developed by David H. Petraeus, the former director of the C.I.A., and supported by Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state. Mr. Biden was joined in resisting the proposal by Thomas E. Donilon, the national security adviser, with whom he — not surprisingly — also has longstanding personal ties.Besides being advocates of more aggressive policies, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Petraeus, along with former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, each brought to the administration stature and independence that their successors cannot match, another contributor to Mr. Biden's increased role."It's not so much that he intends to expand his influence, but his stature will rise by default," said Vali Nasr, a former State Department official who is the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.Mr. Kerry and Mr. Hagel are not the only Biden allies to have prominent places in the second term. Mr. Biden's top foreign-policy aide, Antony J. Blinken, has been promoted to be Mr. Obama's deputy national security adviser, replacing Denis R. McDonough. In that low-profile but powerful job, Mr. Blinken will help resolve disputes between the State Department, the Pentagon and the C.I.A.To replace Mr. Blinken, Mr. Biden last week hired Jacob J. Sullivan, a rising star who was a top adviser to Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Sullivan, 36, who traveled with the secretary of state while serving as the State Department's policy planning director, has deep experience on issues like the Arab uprisings and China.The recruitment of Mr. Sullivan — which included a phone call to him from Mr. Obama on Air Force One — was noted in political circles because if Mrs. Clinton were to run for president again in 2016, he would be likely to work on her campaign, as he did in 2008. Mr. Biden has conspicuously refused to rule out his own run for the presidency.Mr. Obama gave Mr. Biden his own turf in the first term by handing him the Iraq portfolio, and the vice president helped engineer the brisk American withdrawal from that war. But with Iraq receding as an issue for the United States, the question is what turf might Mr. Biden try to claim now?China offers a tantalizing possibility, given that he has cultivated ties to its incoming leader, Xi Jinping. Mr. Biden spent hours with Mr. Xi, the Chinese vice president, in China in 2011, and again last year when he played host to him in Washington.With Mr. Xi slated to become president at the end of the National People's Congress in Beijing, Mr. Obama will become his official counterpart. But Mr. Biden's relationship with Mr. Xi, officials said, would give him an insight into China's leadership that could expand his role informally.Mrs. Clinton and the former Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, each staked their claim to China through an annual meeting known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue. While that dialogue is expected to continue, neither Mr. Kerry nor the new Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, has the China experience that they did."There is reasonable speculation about whether Kerry and Lew are going to be Hillary-Geithner redux," said Jeffrey A. Bader, a senior director for Asia at the National Security Council from 2009 to 2011.Mr. Biden's aides declined to comment on his foreign-policy aspirations, saying he was immersed in efforts to pass gun control laws. They were less concerned with Mr. Xi last week than his meeting with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.But for a White House intent on controlling foreign policy, an enhanced role for the vice president raises few qualms."Biden is very closely integrated into the foreign policy portfolio," said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser. "He's a key player that can take on specific issues, build specific relationships."
WASHINGTON — Top U.S. intelligence officials said Saturday that information gleaned from two controversial data-collection programs run by the National Security Agency thwarted potential terrorist plots in the U.S. and more than 20 other countries — and that gathered data is destroyed every five years.Last year, fewer than 300 phone numbers were checked against the database of millions of U.S. phone records gathered daily by the NSA in one of the programs, the intelligence officials said in arguing that the programs are far less sweeping than their detractors allege.No other new details about the plots or the countries involved were part of the newly declassified information released to Congress on Saturday and made public by the Senate Intelligence Committee. Intelligence officials said they are working to declassify the dozens of plots NSA chief Gen. Keith Alexander said were disrupted, to show Americans the value of the programs, but that they want to make sure they don't inadvertently reveal parts of the U.S. counterterrorism playbook in the process.The release of information follows a bruising week for U.S. intelligence officials who testified on Capitol Hill, defending programs that were unknown to the public — and some lawmakers — until they were revealed by a series of media stories in The Guardian and The Washington Post newspapers, leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, who remains in hiding in Hong Kong.The disclosures have sparked debate and legal action against the Obama administration by privacy activists who say the data collection goes far beyond what was intended when expanded counterterrorism measures were authorized by Congress after the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.Intelligence officials said Saturday that both NSA programs are reviewed every 90 days by the secret court authorized by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Under the program, the records, showing things like time and length of call, can only be examined for suspected connections to terrorism, they said.The officials offered more detail on how the phone records program helped the NSA stop a 2009 al-Qaida plot to blow up New York City subways. They say the program helped them track a co-conspirator of al-Qaida operative Najibullah Zazi — though it's not clear why the FBI needed the NSA to investigate Zazi's phone records because the FBI would have had the authority to gather records of Zazi's phone calls after identifying him as a suspect, rather than relying on the sweeping collection program.
WASHINGTON — Current and former top U.S. officials on Sunday defended the government's collection of phone and Internet data following new revelations about the secret surveillance programs, saying the operations were essential in disrupting terrorist plots and did not infringe on Americans' civil liberties.In interviews on Sunday talk shows, guests ranging from White House chief of staff Denis McDonough to former Vice President Dick Cheney and former CIA and National Security Agency head Michael Hayden said the government's reliance on data collection from both Americans and foreign nationals was constitutional and carefully overseen by executive, legislative and court authorities.All three branches of government, using "aggressive internal checks inside the administration, from inspectors general and routine audits, are overseeing how we do these programs," McDonough said. He added, "I think that the American people can feel confident that we have those three branches looking."The latest reassurances came as a new Washington Post report Sunday described the massive intertwined structure of four major data collection programs that have been set up by the government since the 9/11 attacks. The Post report follows earlier stories based on documents provided by NSA contractor Edward Snowden.Two secret programs, the Post reported in its new disclosures, are aimed at phone and Internet metadata, while two more target contents of phone and Internet communications.Metadata includes logs and timing of phone calls and lists of Internet communications, but does not include the actual contents of communications. Even without knowing those contents, intelligence officials can learn much from metadata, including likely locations and patterns of behavior.A previously reported surveillance program aimed at the phone logs and location information of millions of Americans is called Mainway, the Post reported. A second program targeting the Internet contact logs and location information of foreign users is called Marina.A third program, which intercepts telephone calls and routes their contents to government listeners, is called Nucleon.A fourth program, Prism, exposed recently by Snowden, forces major Internet firms to turn over the detailed contents of Internet communications. Prism is aimed at foreign users but sometimes also sweeps up the content of Americans' emails and other Internet communications, officials have acknowledged."The metadata story does touch upon Americans in a massive way with phone records but not the content. The Prism story is about foreigners and it is about content," Hayden said told NBC's "Meet the Press."Rep. Mike Rogers, who heads the House Intelligence Committee, said that any phone metadata from Americans swept up in the surveillance is held under careful safeguards, kept in a "lockbox" that can only be accessed if it becomes relevant to terror investigations. U.S. officials also said Saturday that gathered data is destroyed every five years."This is a lock box with only phone numbers, no names, no addresses in it, we've used it sparingly," Rogers, R-Mich., said on CNN's "State of the Union".But one Congressional critic of the secrecy surrounding the government's surveillance raised doubts about the effectiveness about the widespread collection of Americans' phone metadata."I don't think collecting millions and millions of Americans' phone calls — now this is the metadata, this is the time, place, to whom you direct the calls — is making us any safer," said Sen. Mark Udall, D-Colorado. Udall said he would introduce a bill this week to narrow the reach of that collection to only "those who have a link to terrorism."Hayden said he worried that news reports about the programs have often provided erroneous information, "much to the harm of a rational national debate." He did not specify those concerns.The disclosures, provided in recent days by both the Post and the Guardian newspaper, came from classified documents exposed by Snowden, 29, who was working as a private contractor with the NSA and later said he grew disenchanted by what he saw as a growing secret American surveillance apparatus. After working with the two newspapers, Snowden turned up in Hong Kong, prompting concern that he might cooperate with Chinese authorities."I am very, very worried that he still has additional information that he hasn't released yet, the Chinese would welcome the opportunity and probably willing to provide immunity for him or sanctuary for him, if you will, in exchange for what he presumably knows," Cheney said on "Fox News Sunday."Cheney added that he has "trouble believing" Snowden had access to all the materials he has disclosed, suggesting the possibility that Snowden had an accomplice inside U.S. security circles."I think you have to ask that question," Cheney said.McDonough, speaking on CBS' "Face the Nation," declined to speculate on Snowden's dealings with China or his access to secret documents, citing a law enforcement investigation. But he cautioned against "some of the hyperbole that now is being thrown around from him and from others involved in this debate that would somehow cast a pall on the intelligence community."But McDonough also disputed Snowden's claim that he had the ability to listen in on any phone conversation, including the president's.
WASHINGTON — Edward Snowden, the American who leaked details about U.S. National Security Agency surveillance programs, said on Monday he decided to disclose the information after observing "a continuing litany of lies" from senior officials to Congress."Seeing someone in the position of James Clapper - the Director of National Intelligence - baldly lying to the public without repercussion is the evidence of a subverted democracy. The consent of the governed is not consent if it is not informed," he said in a forum on the Guardian newspaper website."It was seeing a continuing litany of lies from senior officials to Congress - and therefore the American people - and the realization that that Congress, specifically the Gang of Eight (senior U.S. lawmakers), wholly supported the lies that compelled me to act," he said.Snowden, who revealed himself as the source of leaked information about U.S. government surveillance programs last week from Hong Kong, denied having given classified information to China. "I have had no contact with the Chinese government," he said. "I only work with journalists."
WASHINGTON — A budget shortfall has forced a Pentagon security unit to sharply cut back on regular investigations used to update security clearances for defense contractor employees.In a little-noticed announcement posted on its website on June 7, the Defense Security Service said that "due to a funding shortfall," it has been obliged to suspend "most" routine re-investigations of defense contractor employers cleared at the "Top Secret" level, at least through the end of September.The announcement came two days before Edward Snowden went public in a video released by Britain's Guardian newspaper as the source of leaks about the U.S. government's top-secret surveillance of phone and Internet activity.Snowden was a contractor for Booz Allen Hamilton working as a systems administrator at a National Security Agency facility in Hawaii.The leaks have alarmed the U.S. intelligence community and have raised questions about whether the government is doing enough to vet individuals for security clearances.A Senate Homeland Security subcommittee has scheduled a hearing for Thursday to examine the security clearance process, at which Defense Security Service Director Stan Sims and other U.S. officials are scheduled to testify.A person familiar with the matter said that because Snowden worked as a government employee and contractor for the NSA and Central Intelligence Agency, his security clearances would have been handled by them, rather than the Defense Security Service.But the Defense Security Service announcement shows how the government has been forced to recently scale back its oversight of security clearances in general for contractors.A government source familiar with the matter said the policy change was related to automatic federal spending cuts known as sequestration that began earlier this year when Congress failed to agree on an alternative deficit reduction plan.If a scheduled reinvestigation is delayed or canceled due to the budget crunch, clearance holders will be allowed to hold their clearances, officials said. "Nothing will happen to them," said Cindy McGovern, a spokeswoman for the Defense Security Service.The security service is a Defense Department agency responsible for authorizing, and then paying for, background investigations which the government conducts to determine defense contractors' eligibility for security clearances.The agency itself does not investigate contractor personnel, but commissions investigations from the Office of Personnel Management. That agency then employs its own contractors to conduct investigations in the field.Under government rules, both government and contractor employees with clearances at the Top Secret level are supposed to be re-investigated every five years to ensure that problems have not cropped up in their finances, backgrounds or behavior.It is these routine re-investigations for Top Secret clearance holders that the Defense Security Service says it is being forced to suspend.McGovern said that, in general, budget restrictions will force personnel at the agency to cut back their working weeks, and hence their pay, to four days per week, starting in July.She declined to comment on the case of Snowden, who is believed to be hiding in Hong Kong and is under criminal investigation for the leaks. Snowden had a clearance for "Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information."The Defense Security Service's announcement said that despite the budget crunch, five-year re-investigations will continue for "key management" contractor personnel as well as people needing access to "mission essential" information "directly supporting the Intelligence Community."
WASHINGTON — Since the disclosure of National Security Agency surveillance documents by the British newspaper The Guardian began this month, President Obama, top intelligence officials and members of Congress have repeatedly assured Americans that they are not the target of the N.S.A.'s sweeping electronic collection system."Nobody is listening to your telephone calls," Mr. Obama said when the news broke.But as experts on American intelligence knew, that was not the whole story. It left out what N.S.A. officials have long called "incidental" collection of Americans' calls and e-mails — the routine capture of Americans' communications in the process of targeting foreign communications.On Thursday, in the latest release of documents supplied by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor now believed to be hiding in Hong Kong, The Guardian published two documents setting out the detailed rules governing the agency's intercepts. Dated 2009 and signed by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., they advise N.S.A. eavesdroppers on how to judge whether a target is a foreigner overseas, and therefore fair game, and what to do when they pick up Americans at home or abroad.They show, for example, that N.S.A. officers who intercept an American online or on the phone — say, while monitoring the phone or e-mail of a foreign diplomat or a suspected terrorist — can preserve the recording or transcript if they believe the contents include "foreign intelligence information" or evidence of a possible crime. They can likewise preserve the intercept if it contains information on a "threat of serious harm to life or property" or sheds light on technical issues like encryption or vulnerability to cyberattacks.And while N.S.A. analysts usually have to delete Americans' names from the reports they write, there are numerous exceptions, including cases where there is evidence that the American in the intercept is working for a terrorist group, foreign country or foreign corporation.The documents, classified "Secret," describe the procedures for eavesdropping under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act, including an N.S.A. program called Prism that mines Internet communications using services including Gmail and Facebook. They are likely to add fuel for both sides of the debate over the proper limits of the government's surveillance programs.They offer a glimpse of a rule-bound intelligence bureaucracy that is highly sensitive to the distinction between foreigners and "U.S. persons," which technically include not only American citizens and legal residents but American companies and nonprofit organizations as well. The two sets of rules, each nine pages long, belie the image of a rogue intelligence agency recklessly violating Americans' privacy.But the very existence of the rules suggests that Americans routinely fall into the agency's global net, even if they are not the intended target of the eavesdropping. And since a major focus of American intelligence since 2001 has been the terrorist threat to the United States, calls and e-mails in and out of the country draw particular attention.In addition, current and former N.S.A. officials acknowledge that "incidental" collection of Americans' communications occurs more often today than in the past because of the proliferation of cellphones and e-mail, which can make it harder to determine a person's identity and location.A senior American intelligence official said that while the possibility of incidental collection of Americans' calls and e-mails had always been acknowledged, the N.S.A.'s goal is to focus on foreigners. "The point we've been making is this is not a tool for listening to Americans," the official said.Another American official noted that the default procedure when an American is incidentally picked up is to stop listening and destroy the record, and that exceptions are made mostly for threats to security."If there's a terrorist attack planned or a threat of a cyberattack, I think Americans want us to pay attention to it," the official said. Both officials agreed to discuss the classified rules on condition of anonymity.But Jameel Jaffer, deputy legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said the detailed rules only underscored the intrusion on American privacy from the agency's eavesdropping."From the beginning the concern was that the government would sweep up Americans' communications in the course of surveillance directed at people outside the country," Mr. Jaffer said. "These documents suggest that it's even worse than we thought."He noted a clause about restrictions on the intercept of attorney-client communications but said it allowed wide latitude for sharing such communications inside the government.William C. Banks, an expert on national security law at Syracuse University College of Law, said many of the issues raised by the leaked documents were thoroughly discussed when the FISA Amendments Act was passed in 2008 and renewed last year. But he said there appeared to be little reason for the rules to be secret."I can't imagine there's great harm to national security from these rules being out," Professor Banks said. "If this helps us learn more about what the government's doing, that's probably a good thing."F.B.I. agents and American prosecutors are believed to be building a criminal leak case against Mr. Snowden, who turns 30 on Friday. Officials in Iceland say Mr. Snowden's representatives have contacted them to explore the possibility that he might be granted asylum there.
WASHINGTON — The United States pressured Hong Kong on Saturday to act soon on its request to extradite former U.S. government contractor Edward Snowden to face espionage charges."If Hong Kong doesn't act soon, it will complicate our bilateral relations and raise questions about Hong Kong's commitment to the rule of law," said a senior Obama administration official.
WASHINGTON — U.S. and Chinese officials began formal discussions on cybersecurity Monday, kicking off four days of talks to build cooperation and broach issues that divide the two world powers.Washington is increasingly concerned about the Chinese theft of American intellectual property, but has put been on the defensive by the revelations about U.S. surveillance by NSA leaker Edward Snowden.A bilateral working group on cyber issues that was announced in April held its first meeting Monday at the State Department, with both civilians and military taking part. The U.S. side was led by coordinator for cyber issues, Christopher Painter; China's by senior Foreign Ministry official, Dai Bing.It's a prelude to annual, ministerial-level talks on security and the economy that start Wednesday, a month after a path-finding summit in California between President Barack Obama and new Chinese leader Xi Jinping that aimed to improve collaboration between the powers whose strategic rivalry belies deep economic inter-dependence.This year's edition of the dialogue at least begins in less fraught circumstances than last year's in Beijing, which was overshadowed by the escape of dissident lawyer Chen Guangcheng from house arrest to the U.S. Embassy in the Chinese capital. Chen later moved to the U.S. where he's proved a staunch critic of Beijing.But the weeks since Obama-Xi summit have brought a new complication in the relationship. Authorities in the semi-autonomous Chinese territory of Hong Kong refused to extradite Snowden — a move which U.S. officials implied that Beijing had a hand in.Officials are likely to play down those differences in this week's talks, but cybersecurity is front and center. The Obama administration says resolving it is key to the future of ties between the world's two largest economies, and U.S. businesses are also speaking out."The U.S. in the cyber arena is trying to drawing a bright red line," Brookings Institution scholar, Kenneth Lieberthal, wrote in a commentary. "Effectively, the U.S. position is everyone conducts espionage; we don't object to Chinese espionage, they should not object to ours. But, the U.S. does not do commercial espionage to benefit our own firms competitive position, the Chinese side does and we insist that they stop."Administration officials said the two sides discussed Monday international law and norms in cyber space, and both made practical proposals to increase cooperation and transparency, but the officials gave no details. The U.S side said it raised cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property, trade secrets and confidential business information for economic gain. On Tuesday, officials will also discuss maritime security, missile defense and nuclear policy.Chinese Ambassador to the U.S., Cui Tiankai, on Sunday rejected allegations of Chinese hacking. He told Chinese journalists that Washington has failed to present hard evidence to prove it, state news agency Xinhua reported. He referred to Snowden's revelations about U.S. cyber surveillance and spying against China and other countries and said it demonstrated cyber security is a global problem faced by most countries.The ambassador proposed creating common rules for cyber space through the United Nations, Xinhua said.
WASHINGTON — A Chinese sculptor has removed a disputed inscription from the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial statue that he designed on the National Mall and said Thursday that he is working on a new finish for the side of the artwork.Plans call for sculptor Lei Yixin to carve grooves over the former words to match existing horizontal "striation" marks in the memorial. Lei said he is working to deepen all the memorial's grooves so that they will match.The disputed inscription was a paraphrase from King's "Drum Major" speech. It read, "I was a drum major for justice, peace and righteousness."Critics, including the poet Maya Angelou, argued that the quotation was taken out of context when it was paraphrased and shortened. Angelou said it made King sound arrogant.Lei said the corrective work was going well and is on track to finish before commemorations of the 50th anniversary of King's "I Have A Dream" speech at the March on Washington on Aug. 28."The difficulty is the new striations — so they won't damage the integrity of the statue itself," Lei said through an interpreter.Lei said there was not a high probability, though, of the new carvings causing any cracks."It's not a big problem because the striations are designed to appear on the sides," he said. "If it has some cracks, we could deal with them."Lei said he heard about King when he was growing up in China. He called King a "world-class hero" who was well-known in China and said it was an honor to create the statue."Right now, as we see, the statue looks really good," he said through his son, who served as an interpreter. "He thinks Americans would not regret picking him as the sculptor."More than 5.2 million people visited the memorial last year, according to the National Park Service.National Mall Superintendent Robert Vogel said the work should be completed a few days before commemorations of the March on Washington anniversary between Aug. 24 and Aug. 28."The response to the memorial has been overwhelmingly positive" since it was completed, Vogel said. "People have come and wept at the base of the statue. I think people have seen it as a great work of art and a great addition to the National Mall."The changes will cost between $700,000 and $800,000, Vogel said. The work will be paid for from funds raised to build the memorial that were transferred to the National Park Foundation for repairs and maintenance.No taxpayer dollars will be used to make the repairs, Vogel said.The removal of an inscription or piece of a memorial is rare in Washington, but debate and controversy often accompanies every memorial construction project.This situation was unusual in that the shortened version of the inscription was not formally approved by two panels that oversee architecture and design in the nation's capital, Vogel said. Angelou also served on a panel of historians who recommended this memorial's inscriptions.Harry Johnson, who led the group that built the memorial, said he was pleased everyone had agreed on a solution."There's controversy every time you build a memorial," he said. "I can't explain it. All I can say is we're here to take care of it and make sure it's done correctly."
WASHINGTON — Work to refinish part of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial where a disputed inscription was recently removed may not be done until after the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington.Executive architect Ed Jackson Jr. told The Associated Press on Monday that a disagreement arose over the past 10 days over how to sandblast and refinish the stone where an inscription was recently chiseled away.The side of the memorial's "Stone of Hope" has been left unfinished because the main contractor, Worcester Eisenbrandt Inc. of Baltimore, doesn't have insurance to complete the sandblasting with steel pellets, the way it was originally created, Jackson said.There are color differences now where words were removed, and a slight yellow stain was left on the stone Friday when workers tried an alternate process using walnut shells to blast the stone."It looks unfinished," Jackson said. "The artist is furious about leaving his work unfinished."Sculptor Lei Yixin, who created the memorial, traveled from China to do the corrective work and plans to return home Aug. 20.Lei told AP that sandblasting was always a crucial piece of the project, and he did not know how it was left out of the National Park Service's contract."All we have done is kind of physical damage to the sculpture because we chiseled the inscription out," Lei said through his son, Ke Shi, who interpreted. "The sandblasting is a way to restore the damaged surface to make those damaged surfaces look uniform with the rest of it."National Park Service spokeswoman Carol Johnson said officials agree the work must be done, but it may have to be part of a new contract because of government rules.The project may have to stop for the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington on Aug. 28 when commemorative events are expected to draw big crowds. Scaffolding would be taken down around the monument, and work would resume later, she said."We are committed to going forward in the way Master Lei wants to go forward," Johnson said. "It's just a question of what's the best way and the quickest way to get this done."It was not clear how the sandblasting process that was used to create the memorial more than two years ago was left out of the contract.Jackson said part of the problem was there was never full agreement with the National Park Service on the process outlined by Lei. He said the foundation that built the memorial felt the park service was choosing the wrong contractor to remove the disputed inscription.The Park Service said the project requirements were not clear."We certainly didn't know that this is what was going to be necessary until the process had already started," Johnson said. "Otherwise it would have been in the contract."The agency is still working to finish the project before Lei leaves for China, Johnson said. It is seeking approval to have the work done by the agency's Historic Preservation Training Center, "under the watchful eye of Master Lei," she said.That could allow the project to be completed before the 50th anniversary of King's "I Have a Dream" speech.On Monday, the work site was quiet. Scaffolding wrapped by a white material covered both sides of King's statue, including the area where the inscription was removed.The now-removed inscription was a paraphrase from King's "Drum Major" speech. It read, "I was a drum major for justice, peace and righteousness."Critics, including the poet Maya Angelou, argued the quotation was taken out of context when it was paraphrased and shortened. Angelou said it made King sound arrogant.Associated Press writer Jessica Gresko contributed to this report.
(Reuters) - Agriculture officials in Washington state are testing samples of alfalfa after a farmer reported his hay was rejected for export because it tested positive for a genetically modified trait that was not supposed to be in his crop.If it is confirmed that the alfalfa in question was genetically modified, it could have broad ramifications, said Hector Castro, spokesman at the Washington State Department of Agriculture.Biotech alfalfa is approved for commercial production in the United States. But many foreign and domestic buyers require that supplies not be genetically modified, and the possible presence of GMO modified alfalfa in export supplies could result in lost sales for U.S. farmers.Just this summer, Japan and South Korea temporarily stopped buying some U.S. wheat because an experimental biotech variety was found growing in a field of conventional wheat in Oregon.Alfalfa is the fourth-most widely grown U.S. field crop, behind corn, wheat and soybeans, and is used as food for dairy cattle and other livestock. The crop, worth roughly $8 billion, was grown on more than 17 million U.S. acres in 2012, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.Exports of hay, including alfalfa, have been rising, hitting a record $1.25 billion in 2012, according to the USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service. Washington state is one of the largest producers of alfalfa for export.The Washington farmer, who could not be reached for comment by Reuters, reported the problem to state agriculture officials in late August, according to Castro. The department began testing his alfalfa samples on September 3 and should be finished by Friday, Castro said.He said it is not clear if the farmer bought seed that was genetically modified and mislabeled or if his field was contaminated by some other means. And testing could reveal no contamination at all, he noted.Monsanto Co developed the herbicide-tolerant genetic trait that gives alfalfa and other crops the ability to withstand treatments of its Roundup weedkiller, and has maintained that its biotech alfalfa presents no danger to conventional or organic growers.Many U.S. farmers have embraced Roundup Ready crop varieties as aids to improve crop production.Genetically modified "Roundup Ready" alfalfa was approved by USDA in 2011 to be planted without restrictions after several years of litigation and complaints by critics.GMO opponents have warned for more than a decade that, because alfalfa is a perennial crop largely pollinated by honeybees, it would be almost impossible to keep the genetically modified version from mixing with conventional alfalfa. Cross-fertilization could devastate conventional and organic growers' businesses, they said.But even though U.S. regulators have deemed biotech alfalfa to be as safe as non-GMO varieties, many foreign buyers will not accept the genetically modified type because of concerns about the health and environmental safety of such crops.ACX Pacific - a major exporter of alfalfa and other grass hay off the Pacific Northwest to countries that include Japan, Korea, China and parts of the Middle East - will not accept any GMO because so many foreign buyers are so opposed to it.And domestic organic dairy farmers have said that any contamination of the hay they feed their animals could hurt their sales."This is terribly serious," said Washington state senator Maralyn Chase, a Democrat who fears alfalfa exports could be lost if it is proven that GMO alfalfa has mixed in with conventional supplies.The possibility of alfalfa contamination comes as Washington state voters weigh a ballot initiative that would require mandatory labeling of genetically engineered foods. A similar measure failed to pass in California last year.The issue also arises as USDA continues to investigate the contamination of the wheat grown in Oregon.Monsanto discontinued work on the experimental wheat variety in 2005 because of widespread industry opposition and boycott threats by international buyers. The April discovery of the GMO wheat in Oregon triggered lawsuits and led to some lost export sales of the grain.
WASHINGTON — Caroline Kennedy faced a friendly U.S. Senate confirmation hearing on Thursday on her nomination as President Barack Obama's next ambassador to Japan, amid memories of her father, the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy, and uncles who served in the chamber."This appointment has a special significance as we commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of my father's presidency. I am conscious of my responsibility to uphold the ideals he represented - a deep commitment to public service, a more just America and a more peaceful world," Kennedy said.She noted her father had hoped to be the first sitting U.S. president to make a state visit to Japan. John F. Kennedy, a World War Two veteran who had fought against Japan in the Pacific, was felled by an assassin's bullet when she was a young girl, as was her uncle Robert, a U.S. senator and attorney general.Members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee asked about touchy issues such as trade policy, the thousands of U.S. troops based in Japan and relations with China, but made clear they expected Kennedy would easily be confirmed to the high-profile post."I doubt you're going to get much of a hard time here for lots of reasons," Senator Bob Corker, the top Republican on the committee, told the nominee as the hearing began.Kennedy, a lawyer, is president of the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation and chairs an advisory committee at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University. Active in Democratic politics, the 55-year-old was an early and prominent supporter of Obama in his initial quest for the presidency in 2008.If confirmed as expected by the full Senate, she would be the first woman to serve as U.S. ambassador to Japan."Ms. Kennedy, your uncle Ted was a good friend to me here in the Senate and a good friend to many of our colleagues," said Senator Robert Menendez, chairman of the panel, referring to the late Senator Edward Kennedy, who held his Senate seat for half a century.Edward Kennedy's widow Victoria attended, as did first-term U.S. Representative Joseph Kennedy, a cousin of the nominee."I know that Ted is very proud today to have you here continuing a long family tradition of outstanding service to our nation," said Republican Senator John McCain, who ran against Obama in the 2008 presidential race.Senator Ed Markey, a Democrat and former congressman elected to her late uncle's Massachusetts Senate seat this year, told Kennedy that her family had inspired him to enter politics.Japan is a particularly close and important ally of the United States. Many past ambassadors have been well-known political figures, including former Vice President Walter Mondale.Kennedy's stature as a close Obama ally and leading member of a storied U.S. political dynasty sends a strong signal about the value the United States places on the relationship. Japan's ambassador to Washington, Kenichiro Sasae, attended the hearing.The foreign relations panel will vote on Kennedy's nomination at its next business meeting, before it would be sent to the full Senate for approval.
BEIJING — U.S. Vice President Joe Biden should not expect to make much progress in defusing tensions over the East China Sea if he plans to repeat "erroneous and one-sided remarks" on the issue when he visits China, a top state-run paper said on Wednesday.Beijing's decision to declare an air defense identification zone in an area that includes disputed islands has triggered protests from the United States, Japan and South Korea and dominated Biden's talks in Tokyo on Tuesday.The United States has made clear it will stand by treaty obligations that require it to defend the Japanese-controlled islands, but it is also reluctant to get dragged into any military clash between rivals Japan and China.Biden is scheduled to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping and Vice President Li Yuanchao in Beijing on Wednesday before flying to Seoul later in the week.But he "should not expect any substantial headway if he comes simply to repeat his government's previous erroneous and one-sided remarks", the official English-language China Daily, often used by China to get its message across to the outside world, said in a strongly worded editorial."If the U.S. is truly committed to lowering tensions in the region, it must first stop acquiescing to Tokyo's dangerous brinkmanship. It must stop emboldening belligerent Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to constantly push the envelope of Japan's encroachments and provocations."All aircraft have to report flight plans to Chinese authorities, maintain radio contact and reply promptly to identification inquiries under the zone's rules.U.S., Japanese and South Korean military aircraft have breached the zone without informing Beijing since it was announced on November 23. Japanese and South Korean commercial carriers have also been told by their governments to ignore the rules.China has repeatedly said the zone was designed to reduce the risk of misunderstandings, and stressed that since it was set up there had been no issues with freedom of flight for civilian airlines.The Defense Ministry on Tuesday slammed what it said were "distortions" and "mud throwing" over the zone and the country's intentions."It is not aimed at any specific country or target, and it certainly does not constitute a threat towards any country or region," ministry spokesman Geng Yansheng said in a statement.Still, the move has added to regional nervousness about China's strategic intentions as Beijing presses its territorial claims in the South China Sea and ramps up an ambitious military modernization program.In Tokyo, Biden called on Japan and China to find ways to reduce tensions, repeating Washington was "deeply concerned" by the announcement of the zone.However, influential Chinese tabloid the Global Times, published by the Communist Party's official People's Daily, noted that Biden had not come down heavily on Japan's side, saying he failed to "sate Japan's appetite" for strong words.White House spokesman Jay Carney said on Tuesday that China's decision was a provocative attempt to change the status quo in the East China Sea and urged Beijing not to implement the zone.He urged China to work with Japan and South Korea "to establish confidence-building measures, including emergency communications channels, to address the dangers its recent announcement has created and to lower tensions".The China Daily said it was obvious Washington had taken Tokyo's side in the dispute."Biden needs to be reminded that Japan holds the key to peacefully solving the East China Sea dispute, because it is the Abe administration's recalcitrant denial of the existence of a dispute that has prevented Beijing and Tokyo from conducting meaningful communication and crisis control," it said.China wants Japan first to acknowledge that a formal dispute over sovereignty exists, experts say, a step that Tokyo has rejected for fear it would undermine its claim over the islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China."Again, our timely visitor needs to be told: It is Japan that has unilaterally changed the status quo... China is just responding to Japanese provocations."
BEIJING — U.S. Vice President Joe Biden encouraged Chinese visa applicants to "challenge their government" during a brief meeting at the U.S. embassy in Beijing on Wednesday.Biden, accompanied by Ambassador Gary Locke, waved and greeted hundreds of Chinese queuing at the visa hall."Innovation can only occur when you can breathe free, challenge the government, challenge your teachers, challenge religious leaders," Biden said.Biden is visiting the Chinese capital at the invitation of his Chinese counterpart Li Yuanchao, though he is also meeting President Xi Jinping.Top of the agenda on his trip is China's new air defense identification zone in the East China Sea, which has rattled Washington, Tokyo and Seoul.Biden has sought to reach out to ordinary Chinese before, visiting a noodle restaurant for lunch during a visit to Beijing in 2011."If you come to Washington, tell them you spoke to me here and I promise you'll be able to get to see me," Biden added, to laughter from the waiting visa applicants.
WASHINGTON — U.S. military officials say a Chinese warship nearly collided with an American Navy guided missile cruiser operating in international waters.U.S. Pacific Fleet says it happened Dec. 5 in the South China Sea, and that the USS Cowpens maneuvered to avoid the collision.The State Department has raised the matter at a high level with the Chinese government.The incident comes amid heightened tension over China's growing assertiveness in the region.Despite strenuous objections from Washington, Beijing recently declared a new air defense zone over parts of the East China Sea.Pacific Fleet says it's not uncommon for navies to operate in close proximity and that's why it is paramount they all follow international standards for maritime "rules of the road."
WASHINGTON — In an almost annual ritual, Congress is letting a package of 55 popular tax breaks expire at the end of the year, creating uncertainty — once again — for millions of individuals and businesses.Lawmakers let these tax breaks lapse almost every year, even though they save businesses and individuals billions of dollars. And almost every year, Congress eventually renews them, retroactively, so taxpayers can claim them by the time they file their tax returns.No harm, no foul, right? After all, taxpayers filing returns in the spring won't be hurt because the tax breaks were in effect for 2013. Taxpayers won't be hit until 2015, when they file tax returns for next year.Not so far. Trade groups and tax experts complain that Congress is making it impossible for businesses and individuals to plan for the future. What if lawmakers don't renew the tax break you depend on? Or what if they change it and you're no longer eligible?"It's a totally ridiculous way to run our tax system," said Rachelle Bernstein, vice president and tax counsel for the National Retail Federation. "It's impossible to plan when every year this happens, but yet business has gotten used to that."Some of the tax breaks are big, including billions in credits for companies that invest in research and development, generous exemptions for financial institutions doing business overseas, and several breaks that let businesses write off capital investments faster.Others are more obscure, the benefits targeted to film producers, race track owners, makers of electric motorcycles and teachers who buy classroom supplies with their own money.There are tax rebates to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands from a tax on rum imported into the United States, and a credit for expenses related to railroad track maintenance.A deduction for state and local sales taxes benefits people who live in the nine states without state income taxes. Smaller tax breaks benefit college students and commuters who use public transportation.A series of tax breaks promote renewable energy, including a credit for power companies that produce electricity with windmills.The annual practice of letting these tax breaks expire is a symptom a divided, dysfunctional Congress that struggles to pass routine legislation, said Rep. John Lewis of Georgia, a senior Democrat on the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee."It's not fair, it's very hard, it's very difficult for a business person, a company, to plan, not just for the short term but to do long-term planning," Lewis said. "It's shameful."With Congress on vacation until January, there is no chance the tax breaks will be renewed before they expire. And there is plenty of precedent for Congress to let them expire for months without addressing them. Most recently, they expired at the end of 2011, and Congress didn't renew them for the entire year, waiting until New Year's Day 2013 — just in time for taxpayers to claim them on their 2012 returns.But Congress only renewed the package though the end of 2013.Why such a short extension? Washington accounting is partly to blame. The two-year extension Congress passed in January cost $76 billion in reduced revenue for the government, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. Making those tax breaks permanent could add $400 billion or more to the deficit over the next decade.With budget deficits already high, many in Congress are reluctant to vote for a bill that would add so much red ink. So, they do it slowly, one or two years at time."More cynically, some people say, if you just put it in for a year or two, then that keeps the lobbyists having to come back and wine-and-dine the congressmen to get it extended again, and maybe make some campaign contributions," said Mark Luscombe, principal tax analyst for CCH, a consulting firm based in Riverwoods, Ill.This year, the package of tax breaks has been caught up in a debate about overhauling the entire tax code. The two top tax writers in Congress — House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, R-Mich., and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont. — have been pushing to simplify the tax code by reducing tax breaks and using the additional revenue to lower overall tax rates.But their efforts have yet to bear fruit, leaving both tax reform and the package of temporary breaks in limbo. When asked how businesses should prepare, given the uncertainty, Camp said: "They need to get on board with tax reform, that's what they need to do."Further complicating the issue, President Barack Obama has nominated Baucus to become U.S. ambassador to China, meaning he will soon leave the Senate, if he is confirmed by his colleagues.As the Senate wound down its 2013 session, Democratic leaders made a late push to extend many of the tax breaks by asking Republican colleagues to pass a package on the floor of the Senate without debate or amendments. Republicans objected, saying it wasn't a serious offer, and the effort failed.So should taxpayers count on these breaks as they plan their budgets for 2014?"The best thing I would say is, budget accordingly," said Jackie Perlman, principle tax research analyst at The Tax Institute at H&R Block. "As the saying goes, hope for the best but plan for the worst. Then if you get it, great, that's a nice perk. But don't count on it."
WASHINGTON — In an almost annual ritual, Congress is letting a package of 55 popular tax breaks expire at the end of the year, creating uncertainty — once again — for millions of individuals and businesses.Lawmakers let these tax breaks lapse almost every year, even though they save businesses and individuals billions of dollars. And almost every year, Congress eventually renews them, retroactively, so taxpayers can claim them by the time they file their tax returns.No harm, no foul, right? After all, taxpayers filing returns in the spring won't be hurt because the tax breaks were in effect for 2013. Taxpayers won't be hit until 2015, when they file tax returns for next year.Not so far. Trade groups and tax experts complain that Congress is making it impossible for businesses and individuals to plan for the future. What if lawmakers don't renew the tax break you depend on? Or what if they change it and you're no longer eligible?"It's a totally ridiculous way to run our tax system," said Rachelle Bernstein, vice president and tax counsel for the National Retail Federation. "It's impossible to plan when every year this happens, but yet business has gotten used to that."Some of the tax breaks are big, including billions in credits for companies that invest in research and development, generous exemptions for financial institutions doing business overseas, and several breaks that let businesses write off capital investments faster.Others are more obscure, the benefits targeted to film producers, race track owners, makers of electric motorcycles and teachers who buy classroom supplies with their own money.There are tax rebates to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands from a tax on rum imported into the United States, and a credit for expenses related to railroad track maintenance.A deduction for state and local sales taxes benefits people who live in the nine states without state income taxes. Smaller tax breaks benefit college students and commuters who use public transportation.A series of tax breaks promote renewable energy, including a credit for power companies that produce electricity with windmills.The annual practice of letting these tax breaks expire is a symptom a divided, dysfunctional Congress that struggles to pass routine legislation, said Rep. John Lewis of Georgia, a senior Democrat on the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee."It's not fair, it's very hard, it's very difficult for a business person, a company, to plan, not just for the short term but to do long-term planning," Lewis said. "It's shameful."With Congress on vacation until January, there is no chance the tax breaks will be renewed before they expire. And there is plenty of precedent for Congress to let them expire for months without addressing them. Most recently, they expired at the end of 2011, and Congress didn't renew them for the entire year, waiting until New Year's Day 2013 — just in time for taxpayers to claim them on their 2012 returns.But Congress only renewed the package though the end of 2013.Why such a short extension? Washington accounting is partly to blame. The two-year extension Congress passed in January cost $76 billion in reduced revenue for the government, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. Making those tax breaks permanent could add $400 billion or more to the deficit over the next decade.With budget deficits already high, many in Congress are reluctant to vote for a bill that would add so much red ink. So, they do it slowly, one or two years at time."More cynically, some people say, if you just put it in for a year or two, then that keeps the lobbyists having to come back and wine-and-dine the congressmen to get it extended again, and maybe make some campaign contributions," said Mark Luscombe, principal tax analyst for CCH, a consulting firm based in Riverwoods, Ill.This year, the package of tax breaks has been caught up in a debate about overhauling the entire tax code. The two top tax writers in Congress — House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, R-Mich., and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont. — have been pushing to simplify the tax code by reducing tax breaks and using the additional revenue to lower overall tax rates.But their efforts have yet to bear fruit, leaving both tax reform and the package of temporary breaks in limbo. When asked how businesses should prepare, given the uncertainty, Camp said, "They need to get on board with tax reform, that's what they need to do."Further complicating the issue, President Barack Obama has nominated Baucus to become U.S. ambassador to China, meaning he will soon leave the Senate, if he is confirmed by his colleagues.As the Senate wound down its 2013 session, Democratic leaders made a late push to extend many of the tax breaks by asking Republican colleagues to pass a package on the floor of the Senate without debate or amendments. Republicans objected, saying it wasn't a serious offer, and the effort failed.So should taxpayers count on these breaks as they plan their budgets for 2014?"The best thing I would say is, budget accordingly," said Jackie Perlman, principle tax research analyst at The Tax Institute at H&R Block. "As the saying goes, hope for the best but plan for the worst. Then if you get it, great, that's a nice perk. But don't count on it."
